2025-09-01

## Todo/ Logs
- [x] work on backend project
- [ ] spend 6 sessions on algorithmic problems

- Logs: x: 0 ; y:2

> I have started working on sessions of 45-min; this is more productive that short sessions, but it is at times hard to work for 45-min stretch, but I am getting used to it. 

aftermath comments
> The plan did not go as expected. Today, I will sacrifice for tommorrow. I will to sleep on time. 




## Topics
- Algorithms
	- concepts: DFS




## Notes
- Algorithms
	- concept: Depth First Search (DFS) 
		- did not start; something came up and it all ended. 
> try to do a little everyday. incremental learning is the best learning. 


- Backend 
	- RSS project aggregator 
		- configuring function to add new feed to the database table feeds
		- figuring out which type to use in the foreign key field of the sqlc generated function for addfeedParams
		- ran some tests
			- encountered errors related to database schema constraints; need to investigate the matter. 
			- I think I have figured out the problem; so likely cause is that the incomplete command is also creating a row in the db; which is eventually blocking the entry of the legit entry
			- I know the explanation does not make sense, but it is more about thinking loud about the problem than landing the perfect jab. 
			- the reset command is likely not reverting the state of the feeds table
			- managed to resolve it; the problem was in the reset command handler function; we were just deleting the records of the users table and the records of feeds table were intact. 
		- problem: get the current user from the database
			- I know I have done something, but I am not so sure what exactly. 
			- I have the access to the current user name from the config 
			- can I use that to access the feeds
			- this problem is actually a deeper than it seems on the surface. so here's the deal:
				- we are not assigning a user_id while creating the feed using the addfeed command
				- I wrote a sql query to get the user_id from a their user name; I will be using this to add id field in the retrieved rss 
				- while trying to solve the uuid foreign key issue, I introduced a bug in the users command
				- solved it, nothing major
		- working on introducing new command: feeds
			- list all the feeds in the db, along with some information	
			- this requires me to parse the feeds; I will need to import the feeds struct to handle the parsing of the []Feeds returned by the GetFeeds function
