2025-09-06

## todo/ logs
- [ ] spend 10 sessions working on algorithmic problems
- [ ] spend one deep session working on backend project 
- [x] do some rustlings 

- logs-> x = () | y = (2) 

> absolutely went to drain; I am not all having a clear cut idea how to move right now. 
let's keep it really really simple. no fancy games. do 4 hour deep work every single day for the next 2 months (just do that; everything else is out of interest)

## notes 
- rss project 
	- middleware
		- I really don't know how to go about fixing this problem. It seemed pretty easy at first, but I am not getting any clear approach or if I am being honest; I haven't tried enough
		> do 3 session of exploratory work on middlewares and try to fix it on your own. 
		- I think spending some time trying to figure out this on my own is a great way to learn engineering and design; and this has to be one of the most important skills; no doubt. 
    `func middleware(originalHandler http.Handler) http.Handler {
    return http.HandlerFunc(func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
         fmt.Println("Running before handler")
         w.Write([]byte("Hijacking Request "))
         originalHandler.Serve(w, r)
         fmt.Println("Running after handler")
     })`
		> I need to figure out how to use this model in my code. 
		- interesting, but a lot of questions. 
		- I am not able to conceptualize the logic of using this function signature: 
		`middlewareLoggedIn(handler func(s *types.State, cmd cli.Command, user database.User) error) func(*types.State, cli.Command) error`
		- let's try to understand it slow:
			- the handler func has got three args; so likely we need to arrange the args somehow; because we can't directly access anything 
			- the return function is almost similar, just with the user argument removed; so we are handling the user and passing the context to the function which will be returned from that. 
			- I did got a 1% better understanding; we will eventually need to change the function signature of the all the handler function which require the current user access. 
		- I guess I did write it afterall , though the testing is pending; but I feel I am on the right track. Things that seem difficult to do are actually where learning happens regardless of the fact that they are solvable or not (conditions apply) 
		- I need to completely restructure the processing for using the middleware; before that let me just the existing commands if they right. 
		- did some integration work to bring into use the newly minted middleware; let's try running that. 
	- adding new command: unfollow
		- the middlware seemed to working alright, but things have started to cause problems. I am not so sure what caused things to break.
		- specifically, the command addfeed and follow are not showing proper error messages for usage and other related issues 
		- actually a great opportunity to learn debugging; I should give this a serious thought in my view. 
end 
---
