# 17-10-2025

> Science is a way of thinking much more than it is a body of knowledge. — Carl Sagan

## todo
- [x] do 4 problems (45 x 5)
- [x] async , promises basics
	- [ ] review the latent flip ; and explore its idea in details
- [x] auth complete 
- [ ] figure out a system to work on something; better , get hired. 


## notes 
### algo
- problem: longest repeating character replacement 
	- make at most k replacements ; create longest possible substring without repetition
	- I am facing some issues; most of the problems I pick randomly involve some advanced algorithms ideas, this creates a vacuum in my approach. By the time I get to 80 questions; I will start the advanced algorithms course. 
	- No, I misunderstood the problem; we need to remove k characters to find the longest substring with only single distinct character. 
	- the problem definition seems pretty clear now; but I can't seem to come up with a clear approach to solve this problem. 
	- I am sensing this problem to be too complex; or should I say , my familiarity is not enough with the pattern; whatever, but this is an important pattern. 
	- a vague pattern came to my mind; we will only be replacing the characters with the one of the characters from the same string. 
	- I am not able to think of a reliable way to find substrings; also , I am not sure how do I replace the character and also check for the possible substrings. 
	- continuing with the problems again
	- did manage to understand the core idea of the problem. 
- problem: task scheduler 
	- some element of design thinking and construct building is required. 
	- the core idea is likely to figure out which character to choose first. 

## cohort 
### async js
- synchronous code runs line by line. 
- understand ideas by playing with different ideas. create errors, bug, then fix them, then reason. this is how you will understand complex ideas. 
- why does fs module give two functions ; readFileSync and readFile. 
	- I mean why do we need two functions; isn't it clear that readFile is better. just a quesiton I had. 
- while working out on a problem; I understood that we take a lot of things for granted. we don't really understand we assume we do. 
- **concurrency is not parallelism**
- what is the difference between io bound tasks and cpu bound tasks. 
- call stack is what the cpu is doing at the moment
- review the latent flip visualization; try at least 5-6 different combinations. 


## backend engineering
- Auth
	- working with handling JWT tokens; they are pretty cool. 
	- I am struggling with understanding which type to use for the IssuedAt param in the RegisteredClaims, which is passed as the argument to the NewWithClaims method. 
	- 
