# 02-10-2025

> Engineering is not only study of 45 subjects but it is moral studies of intellectual life. — Prakhar Srivastav

## todo 
- [ ] review 
	- [ ] climbing stairs min count 
	- [ ] climbing stairs
	- [ ] graph problems (2)
- [ ] dev , 2
- [ ] CN 2 units 


## notes
### cohort
- why blockchains?
	- currency have a fundamental problem; even though they seem relatively stable; their core idea is very fragile and actually very recent too. 
	- why can't we print money? 
		- absolutely incredible question. 
		- money is indirectly linked to resources; if we print money and introduce it to the system, that would mean that the net value of resources have increased; but if that is not true, that would mean the value of resources will have to increase to maintain the equilibrium. 
		- Holding cash is a losers bet in the long run. 
	- fractional reserve banking
		- banks don't have the cash to give to everyone at a particular instance. 
		- currencies are not backed by anything tangible ; initially they were backed by gold, but not anymore. 
	- how to create a new currency? 
		- very difficult without a central authority 
		- trustless way (trust minimization) 
		- anonymized 
	- hash functions
		- hash functions have a certain properties:
			- deterministic
			- fast computation
			- pre-image resistance 
			- collision resistance 

### Algorithms 
- problem (re): best time to buy and sell stocks 
	- I have already solved this problem (just 2-3 days ago). But let me see. 
	- I am not sure if I will be able to solve it or not, but I will try anyways. 
	- trying to write the solution mainly from memory; but I am not very sure of the ideas. 
	- to be honest, absolutely not sure. but I am managing to make some sense out of noise. 
	- some cases are actually passing; so two questions arise
		- am I moving in the right direction
		- are the passing test cases kind of accidental or buildup for a real solution 
	- I need to revisit ideas related to this problem to strengthen the ideas. 
	- I was making this too big of a deal, it was not really as difficult. But the part of revisiting the ideas is surely required. 
- problem : best time to buy and sell stocks 
	- great twist to the original problem. adds layers to the core problem. 
	- actually this increases the real world idea more; meaning that the complexity actually matches to how real world works (not absolutely, but incremental modelling is pretty accurate)
	- tried to think of a simple of a simple approach to tackle this problem, but I am not sure if can model that using simple array ideas, I would like to be proven wrong; but I am sensing some DP/ backtracking. 
	- lost focus; heavily distracted ; context shifted; lost the whole idea. 
	- I am very sure I won't build any real confidence if I do this way. Configure system. 
	- I looked up for some ideas on the problem on gemini and it suggested a greedy approach; and I guess of simple approaches not working is probably wrong. 
	- Solution
		- I did not completed the solution video, but I think I got the critical idea. 
		- Let me try coding that solution. 
		- It did work, the solution was far simpler than I thought; but I still think this question has a lot to offer. 
		- continuing watching the solution 
		- yeah, the solution was pretty much the same. 
- problem: count good nodes in binary tree 
	- to solve this problem, I need to check if the current node has any ancestor that is having greater node value than the current one. 
	- by default, the root node will always be a good node. 
	- I am sensing a dfs like approach in this problem; because we need to compare the node val to all its previous ancestors (or something similar)
	- I am not going till the 45-min mark; because I am not having any remote idea to think about or base my thinking on. 
