# 21-10-2025

> The important thing is not to stop questioning. — Albert Einstein

## todo
- [x] do 4 focused sessions of 1.5 hour 
	- ~~algorithms~~
	- backend 
	- cryptography
	- promises
- [x] vinland saga till 125
- [ ] berserk till 20th 


## notes 
### algorithms 
- problem: container with most water
	- need to calculate the maximum amount of water that can be stored by forming a container using two bars in a graph. 
	- from a fundamental standpoint, it is a vague problem; but it tests more of a critical thinking under vague assumptions. this is a pretty interesting question to get a hang of non linear thinking. 
	- spend around 45-min on the problem. 
	- trying to understand meta problems 
		- how do we decide the volume of water between any two bars
			- between any two bars, we choose the the smaller one and it is responsible for the height of the entire pool 
	- algorithm 1
		- find the k longest bars in the entire graph
		- no this won't work clearly. 
	- algorithm 2
		- the second options also seems like a good option
		- I think two pointers is a good approach we can use here. 
		- this is too confusing for now. 
	- algorithm 3
		- I am simply proceeding with the brute force solution
		- okay, at least this worked. 
	- but it was probably something anyone could do, the real issue is optimization and being able to think around corners. 
	- we are trying to find a balance between two metrics; distance between the bars and the height of bars. essentially we want to maximize both. 
		- this is a trade off kind of situation. 
	- okay, so I tried a heuristic and it worked. it was pure guess work if I am being honest. 
	- I don't know why it really works though. but it was pure guesswork based on a pattern I was detecting. 
- problem: boats to save people 
	- first approach I am thinking is sending the heaviest people first. oh, no this is likely not going to work. 
	- good I realized that pretty fast. 