# 25-10-2025

> The best way to predict the future is to create it. — Peter Drucker

# todo 
## what I expect 
- vinland saga ; 200 chap
- martian ; 3 chap
- 4 session auth 
- 4 session problem solving 
## what I got done
- auth 
	- started working on auth
	- 2 session done (scattered focus; 4/10)
- algorithms 
	- started working

# notes 
## backend engineering 
### auth 
- having trouble figuring out how to use the auth methods in the handler functions. 


## algorithms 
- problem: sorted array 
	- this is simply a design problem; but the question asks to not use any inbuilt function ; and do it in O(nlogn)
	- I don't really remember any good sorting algorithm; also I have not really applied any sorting algorithm ; mostly I have just tried to understand the larger level details. 
	- I will probably try to come up with an approach for 30-min; if I manage to get it; cool; else I will simply go with the solution and try to understand the core idea. 
	- wrote the worst possible sorting algorithm; but I don't understand it all to well as well. I need to get the sorting a bit better. I will likely spend some more time. 
	- got lost on linkedin; this is bad. don't do this. no exceptions allowed. 
	- took a big step today; created a youtube channel; never thought I would do that and even uploaded the first video; no editing, nothing. 
- problem: sort colors 
	- the problem definition is pretty abstract (no; that's not the right word; the word is I don't know)
	- an interesting request; I am sensing bucket sort pattern; but let's see




# afterthoughts
- made plenty of mistakes; but did somethings fine. 
- course correction: get the hard things done first. do non essentials later. 
- hydrate regularly. 


