# 29-10-2025

> To invent is to rebel against the status quo. — Unknown

# todo 
## what I expect 
- block 1: 1745 → 2030
- block 2: 2200 → 0345 
## what I got done 
- did not do the first sessions.

# notes 
## algorithms 
- problem : trapping rain water 
	- I have done the max volume problem which utilized a similar pattern. 
	- clearly a use of two pointers. I don't know for sure how to control the two pointer movement. 
	- let me try to create easier cases and then slowly derive the patterns that can applied for more complex cases. 
	- the smaller height dictates the height of the pool (area/whatever)
	- no two adjacent bars can store any water (do think critically about this)
	- there are quite a few edge cases that I need to consider before writing any solution. 
	- a few core ideas I have extracted to some extent are: 
		- if min(l, r) > 0 ; then probably water can be stored and also r - l > 1
		- the net capacity that can be stored in the pool is calculated using the l bar and r bar , but not instantaneously
	- i am not so certain if the solution can be constructed in a single pass; very unlikely if I have to speak my instincts
	- i am jumping to the solution; because i am not really doing any real thinking now, more of less just trying to pass time. 
	- the idea that I was thinking was based on the clustering ; collectively calculating the total volume , rather than block / incrementally . 

## backend engineering 
- HTTP Servers
	- i have been stuck with auth for quite some time; i realized that i get stuck when i start slacking and not following the system. this usually stems from overly zealousness. 
	- I am going to do the bare minimum, spend the next two hours trying to design the solutions. if i am not able to do that , that is cool. 
	- accept an optional expires_in_seconds parameter in request body; not so sure what this means. 
	- again got distracted ; i will simply maintain a notepad from now on, whatever comes up in mind during that, i will just write it there. 

# afterthoughts

- focus quality was really bad; i was heavily getting distracted in between; rather than forcing myself to work on really long sessions; though eventually i will have to do that. but for building momentum, first put in the bare minimum and once you gain some momentum; go ahead all in for 4-6 hours. 