# 03-10-2025

> Success usually comes to those who are too busy to be looking for it. — Henry David Thoreau

## todo
- [ ] solve 3 problem (45-min x 3 + break in between) 
	- insane focus; no half baked effort. 
- [ ] jwt problem 
- [ ] cohort orientation 


## notes 
### cohort 
#### web 3 orientation 1/2
- justed completed it 
- not going to touch web3 part until I complete until week 12
- my core focus is to get really good understanding with fundamentals and do the heavy lifting wherever possible. 

#### 1.1 web dev
- was distracted with a lot of stuff today; but I will anyways try to get to the core of it. 
- will try to solve some exercises 


### algorithms 
- planning to solve 5 problems in 4 sessions (5-min break in between)

- problem: encode and decode strings
	- the problem seems pretty simple at first glance
	- going to spend 5 min understanding the problem first 
	- okay, the test cases don't really make sense to me
	- I think I got the idea after looking at the function signature; it was confusing because the test cases were showing the final output after two function calls and also there were no instructions 
	- I was missing out on some critical thinking to understand what the problem really expected me; I got around this by taking some help of gemini to understand the problem better. 
	- I am pretty sure there is some clever trick behind this problem; because standard fixes are not going to work out (I assume; I might be wrong) 
	- I actually solved this problem way back (around 1year ago) and not exactly solved, but saw the solution, and it likely involved using delimiters in a fashion that allowed to store everything in the passing parameter without losing any data. 
	- gave gemini directives to act as a copilot; though it kinda revealed the major hard part to me; but I am still struggling to write the code. 
	- the possible edge cases put in a weird state of thinking. 
	- this problem teases elements of protocol level thinking. 
	- how do I parse the string to retrieve the elements of array
	- the decoding part is pretty fascinating and will take me some to getting used to it. 
	- I figured out the idea likely to a great extent; though I am far from passing test; but it will take too long if I try to come up with the solution and debug; I am moving ahead with solution. 
	- solution 
		- edge cases really puzzle me; they are intentionally designed to do that 
		- my solution was getting pretty close, but i need to think deeper about some details from now on
		- I am getting better with my problem solving (surely), but I am nowhere near where I want to be. 
- problem: reverse string
	- question is marked as easy; but I am here to understand what goes in while tackling problems. I will give this question more time than expected. 
	- some interesting twist to question by neetcode: modify the input array in place with O(1) extra memory 
	- the inplace twist makes the question pretty interesting; actually seriously interesting; more challenging than I expected. 
	- I was expecting I would get it ; but I couldn't . The inplace made me stuck. 
	- solution:
		- we are given an array and not a string; this is a really small but important detail. strings in most languages don't allow in place changes, so if I change a character in a string, I actually generate a new string in the process (please verify this) 
		- I actually managed to get the solution right with a bit of help; i was overthinking about the details, just like I do with other things. 
		- Stop thinking and start acting; a bad mvp is far better than a perfected solution (which likely won't touch production, though the bad mvp might)
		- in case of this problem; the most efficient solution is the simplest one; which is rarely the case , especially in context of algos. 
		- not the most optimal way; but just to flex your thinking 
			- use a stack 
			- you get the idea right 
		- another approach: recursion 
			- okay, so I do understand using recursion to generate a new string,but I am somewhat confused with using recursion in place. 



