# 05-10-2025

> The best way to predict the future is to create it. — Peter Drucker

## todo
- [ ] solve 4-5 problems and review 1-2 problems/techniques
- [ ] solve JWT
- [ ] CN 2 chapters
- [ ] ML 1-2 chapters


## notes
### algorithms 
- problem: product except self
	- wrote a solution, but turned out I did not think about a lot of critical aspects. 
	- is zero the only element that I need to take care of
	- I am trying to write  a fevikwik solution; it is not really solving the core problem. I am trying to create temporary solutions, but not really thinking enough to create an algorithm that really solves the core issue. 
	- is there any technique I can use here; I am feeling that hashMaps might be useful; just a hunch. 
	- I for whatever reason, ignored the most critical first step; the brute force approach. I should have given it some serious thought before jumping onto optimized solution. 
	- came across a new technique called **prefix sum**; and it is pretty damn good. But I would need to analyze the solution really well before I can use it in any new context as well. 
	- plays a lot in the details. great problem to unlock intuition around thinking about edge cases and design. 
- problem: range sum query 2D immutable 
	- the problem seems very heavy from its name; but let me try to analyze it and then make any judgement regarding the actual nature of problem. 
	- O(1) time complexity; are you kidding me. 
	- I am struggling while juggling the basic variable and positioning them in the matrix. I am going to give this some time. 
	