# 07-10-2025

> Science is a way of thinking much more than it is a body of knowledge. — Carl Sagan

## todo 
- [ ] get the two sessions right 


## notes 
### algorithms 
- problem: range sum 2D query immutable
	- tried solving this problem 2 days ago, did not made any serious progress. 
	- jumping straight to solution today. 
	- solution
		- the core to understand here is prework; yeah the O(1) is most likely amortized time complexity. just a hunch before I completely get the idea right. 
		- I am not understanding some part of the problem; which should have made sense quite easily. The iteration variables; I am not sure if I am doing them right or not. 
		- have I really understand what the problem is even asking; I am at times feeling that I am doing something completely different than is expected of me. 
		- quite heavy problem in terms of ideas and process. would really need to revisit it strongly to get the clear idea. 
- problem: valid binary search tree
	- the core idea that I struggle with while dealing with graph related problems is dfs or bfs; this question directly comes to my mind; and the next thing is how and why should I use it. I have not understand the core ideas well enough, that is what is causing this confusion. 
	- I am not sure if BFS would be of any help here; the core issue seems to be something else. If I understand it well enough. 
	- the solution is likely going to be recursive. The nature of problems feels very natural to fit with recursion. 
	- I am under a lot of doubt and uncertainty while coming with a solution that fits this problem well enough. I mean I am very doubtful and full of confusion while coming with a solution that could fit it well enough. 
	- I am not able to think any good starting point to solve this problem; but I surely could have come up with better abstract models (at least). 
	- I am going to try to question decisions made in the solution video. 
	- The abstract model I had in mind to solve this problem completely missed the mark; I was thinking I can just compare the two levels and the other properties will be automatically fulfilled, but I was quite wrong. 
	- a fair bit of original thinking was required, this problem was not a clone problem where I was expected to simply plug in values and the problem was solved, this required to come up with an approach to get it simplified or something. 
	- a lot of ideas regarding recursion and graphs were clarified with this problem. It was a good problem; seriously good problem. 
- problem: length of longest substring without repeating characters
	- this seems like a fairly simple problem; from what I understand, I just need to iterate through the string using something like sliding window. 
	- Okay, upon thinking a bit, I am sensing that this problem is not as simple as it seems. 
	- not at all simple; I was oversimplifying a lot of things; this problem does require me to think about some critical aspects; tradeoffs, design choices , mechanism to find duplicate. 
	- finding all possible sub strings does not seem like a great option; though it could be an approach. 
	- solution
		- the solution video actually used the same approach I was thinking; but just that I had a lot of doubts and questions on how to apply that algorithm. 
		- I am going to try to write out that solution on my own and just see if I can crack it. 
		- still a lot of questions and fair amount of questioning. Whenever I try to write some code, 10 questions pop up about design choices, what am I doing and what not. 
- problem: sum of all subsets XOR total 
	- marked as easy; but the questions throws a lot of jargon and it kind of intimidates me 
	- I find it difficult to find subsets, it kind of scares me to some extent. 
	- I need to solve for foundational issues. 
	
