## Tasks / Logs
- [ ] spend 2 deep work sessions on algos
- [ ] spend 1 deep work session on backend project
> these kind of goals are vague (not really), but are at times immensely difficult to pull off; likely because i am not yet primed enough
- Logs: x : 0 ; y : 3


## Topics 
- golang backen
	- RSS implementation
- algorithms 
	- queue, problems 


## Notes
- golang backend
	- RSS feed project
		- RSS integration in the project
			- RSS stands for Really Simple Syndication 
			- RSS is a way to get latest content from a website in a structured format; most content sites have a RSS feed. 
			- RSS is a specific structure of XML ( i don't know what the above statement means)
		- We are likely going to use unmarshalling to get access of RSS data in our code 
		- i need to write function for getting RSS data; i am not sure where i should place it 
			- from what i understood, RSS is essentially a XML wrapper; RSS is structured such that machines and humans , both can interact with the data with ease. 
			

- algortithms
	- problem: 1700- number of students unable to eat lunch
		- this problem is marked as a queue topic
		- let me describe the problem in brief: we have two arrays, one with students's preference and other with menu; we keep matching until no student wants the top of the stack sandwich. 
		- this problem requires me to handle the two arrays simultaneously; while juggling the idea in the head. 
		- saw solution after 30-min of trying;
			- the approach used in the solution is frequency count; we only need to take care of the order for sandwiches and not the students; so we create a hash map with count of sandwiches students want and use the standard approach to tackle it
			- seemed very intriguing and fast; there are other approaches too, but i guess this is the most optimal. 

	- problem: implement stack using queues
		- seems like a naive problem; but you never know what one is up against.
		- did quite easily, but I used the built in method to implement the same method ; not really an implementation, if we are being honest
		- also: the problem clearly required me to use queues to implement stack and i plainly ignored it; so 0 marks for what you did. 
		- i did implement the solution using the queue; but it was more or less, the same as the first implementation, i am not really satisfied. 
		- solution:
			- nc guy does not just jump to the solution right away, he first analyzes the idea, judges time complexity and feasibility rather than just facing the problem head on
			- i realized the fundamental really are very important; the solution is usually not something fancy, it is just about handling the constraints provided and understanding the problem one step at a time using fundamental buildup. 
			- the most trivial seeming solution is the most valid and what was expected solution in this context; so yeah, we learn things. 
