## Todo/ Logs
- [x] study at any cost after having dinner

- Logs: x : 0 ; y : 5

## Topics
- algorithms


## Notes
- algorithms
	- problem: merge k sorted linked list
		- watched solution after spending 20-30 min on trying to come up with solution on my own 
		- tried copying the solution
		- wrote the copied solution, but when I ran it, it did not work. 
		- so, trying to fix that first. 
		- i did not really get it; so I will review it once again on my own after 2 days. 
		- i will also likely review it once again after done with other stuff. 
	- concept: quick sort 
		- this seems like an interesting algorithm
		- did not try to implement myself, but just copied the solution for priming. 
		- will likely try to write the solution by myself later. 

- backend project : RSS feed aggregator
	- integrate RSS in the project
		- no idea how it will be done, but I am ready to put in the work. 
> i got distracted in between and started doing random stuff rather than focusing on the problem at hand. 
		- what is http.NewRequestWithContext supposed to do
		- I have got the idea about how things are interacting, but I am stuck with http.NewRequestWithContext and specifically the body (io.Reader) arg
		- some progress has been made; also had to take up some help from perplexity explaining what exactly was the body arg was supposed to do ( my instinct was right to an extent)
		- continued working on the rss project
		- I have done some major work, but now the problem I facing is integration with the cmds.Register as the function signature of fetchFeed is different
		- let me try to solve it; first thought: create a wrapper function 
		- once again I am encountering circular dependency issues; this is a test of sort for me. 
		- 
