### Topics  
- SQL commands
- Database migrations
- SQL Data Types
- Constraints in SQL
- Schema

### Notes  
- SQL
	- Alter command: alter the database schema without deleting and re-creating it. Make changes in place, without removing any data. 
	- Migrations
		- I understand it, but not really sure how to explain that in the form of definition. Migrations are of three types : add, delete and update. Update migrations are seriously hard to deal with, ideally avoid if possible. 
		- Migrations are kind of tricky to handle; if not handlled carefully, they can lead to outages.
		- Standard practices to handle migrations in production systems. For golang, tool like Goose are used to handle migrations.
	- SQL Data Types
		- Different SQL databases store different data types based on their intent and chosen design, but mostly they are same (I am not sure) 
		- Mostly the same as common types in programming language; but one specially caught my eye, BLOB : Binary Large Object, used for storing images, audio and multimedia files. 
		- Boolean is essentially a wrapper over integers in some way; we can use true and false as values for a boolean data type, but under the hood, true and false are mapped to 1 and 0 integer values. 
	- Constraints
		- simplest example of a constraint would be whether a column can have a null values or not. null values are different from zero values (very different); null values signifies that the value is missing. 
		- constraints are very useful and practical for enforcing rules for maintaining consistency in a database. 
		- primary keys : unique 
		- foreign keys : make relational databases relational
	- Schema
		- introduction, design ideas
		- don't overcomplicate it , it is just the tables and how and why 
