## Topics
- RSS Feed project continued
- Algorithms


## Notes
- RSS Feed generator project
	- continued working on the project
	- working on implementing the CLI functionality 


- Algorithms
	- problem: Remove duplicates from sorted array (0(1) memory)  
		- the most difficult part about this problem was the condition that O(1) memory had to be used. 
		- learnt about 2 pointer approach, the approach that I was using seriously bad. 
			- just so that I am able to get better; here is what I was doing: I was essentially removing any duplicate by comparing the current idx value to previous idx value and break out of the loop so that the resizing caused side effects can be prevented. 
		- learn to read problem statements and understand the meta patterns that can be used to solve a problem. 
	- problem: Remove element 
		- remove all occurences of val from the given array in place
		- this problem does seem to signal two pointer approach. 
		- I am getting a hang of the two pointer approach.
		- getting the solution is not difficult, but getting the in place logic part is the hard part. 
		- I do understand the solution, but I am not really confident with the approach. The key logic is not clear to me yet.  
	- concept: dynamic arrays
		- fundamental operations: pushing, popping
		- ideas: length vs size, relocation
		- we are essentially operating on a static array, but whenever we fall short on size, we assign a new array of double the size (can be anything else too) and deallocate the current array. 
		- the doubling of size on every resizing leads to a cool concept called **amortized complexity**
		- mathematical proof of amortized complexity is related to power series.
	- problem: concatenation of arrays
		- simple, but try to solve it using first principles and applying the ideas learnt in dynamic arrays 
> I have never really tried to stick to the process seriously for long enough, I last tried to solve this problem almost 1 month back, but never looked back. I am going to build a system to at least do 1-2 problem every single day. I will build deep learning one step at a time. 

