## Todos/Questions
- revisit two pointer solution and rewrite on your own
- q: what is amortized time complexity? 


## Topics
- Algorithms



## Notes
- Algorithms 
	- problem: Concatenation of Array
		- basic problem
		- just keep in mind the basic idea related to dynamic array resizing
	- concept: stacks
		- most important operations on stacks: push, pop, peek/show
		- essentially, a stack can be implemented using dynamic arrays or should I say, they are almost same. 
		- LIFO: Last In First Out 
	- problem: Valid Parentheses
		- the solutions that I wrote did not pass; they were mostly failing the edge cases, and which are the most important ones
		- watched the provided solution and realized that I was missing a few critical steps to pass. part of learning I guess. 
		- I should make my coding process more iterative, more questioning based and heavy on critical thinking ( meta ) 
	- problem: Minimum Stack
		- this is more of a core exercise problem; we are required to implement methods of a stack. 
		- the only method that is troubling me is the getMin() method; we are required to give a solution that runs in O(1); i am not sure about this.
		- getMin()
			- naive solution: look through every element 
			**hint: consider each node in the stack having a minimum value**
			- I am not writing the answer so that you do some work; but just remember that there are two approaches to solve this. 			
	- concept: linked list
		- linked lists are similar to arrays, but different from arrays as well
		- linked list utilize pointers to store the various elements in it; arrays store the elements in memory the same way they are accessed, but linked lists store each node in independent locations as they are nodes are linked using pointers. 
	- problem: reverse linked list
		- surely, an interesting problem
		- it seemed very simple at first, but it has got a part that does require understanding the meta. let's give it some time. 
			- the approach that seems most appealing to me is changing the direction of pointers; I sense that this is the only way to do it in-place. 
		- did not solve the problem yet, but got spark for an interesting idea
			- try to solve the smallest sub problem; rather than the entire problem.  
	
