aug, 2025/15-08-25.md, before:

## Todo/logs
- [ ] Revisit the two pointer and linked list problem (3 total)
- [ ] Solve 4-5 problems and understand their solution deeply on neetcode 
- [ ] Solve 3 steps in backend project

logs: x: 0 ; y : 3


## Topics
- Algorithms



## Notes
- Algorithms 
	- problem: merge two list (easy : but I couldn't solve it) 
		- the problem I was facing was debugging and understanding how the data structure actually structured 
		- I was clear with my approach, but was having difficulty writing solutions. 
		- Struggling hard time even getting the output in proper format 
		- had to copy the entire solution after making several wrong attempts
		- actually the point is not true, I was extremely close to the correct solution. 
	- concept: doubly linked list 
		- slight variation to linked list; just that we have two pointers for each node ( prev and next) 
		- order of operations in doubly linked list is critical
		- accessing a random element in any type of linked list is an O(n) operation; a downside compared to arrays
		- in production systems, arrays are more likely to be used, the core advantage being able to access ith item in constant time. 
	- problem: design linked list(707) 
		- requires some system level thinking ; a good problem to spend some time on to understand the various working components 
		- this is one of the first problems that I have encountered which requires different approach and also challenges the eureka approach.
		- note: properly read the problem statement/details. 
		- the dummy node approach is extremely good, if understood and implemented properly; problems can be solved without the dummy node approach, but it really helps to tackle edge cases. 
		- I am not really confident with this problem, but it felt like heavy lifting. Will require heavy lifting. 
		- problem is pending; going on a short break, but will likely do it within 25-min session and visit after three days 

> my mind is trying to push the narrative to me that I am never going to be good at DSA; but I know this trick and how to escape this; just keep putting in the reps.

Commit message:

doing some heavy lifting after quiet long time

aug, 2025/15-08-25.md, after:

## Todo/logs
- [ ] Revisit the two pointer and linked list problem (3 total)
- [x] Solve 4-5 problems and understand their solution deeply on neetcode 
- [x] Solve 3 steps in backend project

logs: x: 0 ; y : 8


## Topics
- Algorithms
- Backend engineering with Golang


## Notes
- Algorithms 
	- problem: merge two list (easy : but I couldn't solve it) 
		- the problem I was facing was debugging and understanding how the data structure actually structured 
		- I was clear with my approach, but was having difficulty writing solutions. 
		- Struggling hard time even getting the output in proper format 
		- had to copy the entire solution after making several wrong attempts
		- actually the point is not true, I was extremely close to the correct solution. 
	- concept: doubly linked list 
		- slight variation to linked list; just that we have two pointers for each node ( prev and next) 
		- order of operations in doubly linked list is critical
		- accessing a random element in any type of linked list is an O(n) operation; a downside compared to arrays
		- in production systems, arrays are more likely to be used, the core advantage being able to access ith item in constant time. 
	- problem: design linked list(707) 
		- requires some system level thinking ; a good problem to spend some time on to understand the various working components 
		- this is one of the first problems that I have encountered which requires different approach and also challenges the eureka approach.
		- note: properly read the problem statement/details. 
		- the dummy node approach is extremely good, if understood and implemented properly; problems can be solved without the dummy node approach, but it really helps to tackle edge cases. 
		- I am not really confident with this problem, but it felt like heavy lifting. Will require heavy lifting. 
		- problem is pending; going on a short break, but will likely do it within 25-min session and visit after three days 

> my mind is trying to push the narrative to me that I am never going to be good at DSA; but I know this trick and how to escape this; just keep putting in the reps. 

- Backend	
	- continued working on fixing the command line based function calling ; also realized that config files are by standard stored in the system root and it is perfectly fine
	- file path issue
		- earlier, I was storing the .gatorconfig file in the root of the project, but the tests required me to store them in the root of the system. 
		- but when I save any file in the system's root, I am not able to access the content of that file for whatever reason. 
		- currently investigating the matter; what is causing this problem. 
		- had to take some help from gpt friends; and got to know that "~" is not the universal home and you need to specify the home address ; used os.UserHomeDir() function to get user's home location. 
	- postgres setup
		- installed postgres
		- ran postgres in terminal and did setup for user and created a database called 'gator' for the project
	- goose migrations 
		- had to check what exactly are database migrations as I am quiet often confused with database migrations some mystical process; it is nothing complicated, it just means simple changes  made to database (for now this is enough) 
		- up migrations: migrations done to make the changes in application
		- down migrations: revert changes due to conflict or breaking somewhere
		- got a bit distraced while the package was installing (twitter; new system=> no twitter until one frag is completed)
		- having some issue while getting the connection string to postgres database
