## Todo/logs
- [ ] Revisit the two pointer and linked list problem (3 total)
- [ ] Solve 4-5 problems and understand their solution deeply on neetcode 
- [ ] Solve 3 steps in backend project

logs: x: 0 ; y : 3


## Topics
- Algorithms



## Notes
- Algorithms 
	- problem: merge two list (easy : but I couldn't solve it) 
		- the problem I was facing was debugging and understanding how the data structure actually structured 
		- I was clear with my approach, but was having difficulty writing solutions. 
		- Struggling hard time even getting the output in proper format 
		- had to copy the entire solution after making several wrong attempts
		- actually the point is not true, I was extremely close to the correct solution. 
	- concept: doubly linked list 
		- slight variation to linked list; just that we have two pointers for each node ( prev and next) 
		- order of operations in doubly linked list is critical
		- accessing a random element in any type of linked list is an O(n) operation; a downside compared to arrays
		- in production systems, arrays are more likely to be used, the core advantage being able to access ith item in constant time. 
	- problem: design linked list(707) 
		- requires some system level thinking ; a good problem to spend some time on to understand the various working components 
		- this is one of the first problems that I have encountered which requires different approach and also challenges the eureka approach.
		- note: properly read the problem statement/details. 
		- the dummy node approach is extremely good, if understood and implemented properly; problems can be solved without the dummy node approach, but it really helps to tackle edge cases. 
		- I am not really confident with this problem, but it felt like heavy lifting. Will require heavy lifting. 
		- problem is pending; going on a short break, but will likely do it within 25-min session and visit after three days 

> my mind is trying to push the narrative to me that I am never going to be good at DSA; but I know this trick and how to escape this; just keep putting in the reps. 

