aug, 2025/28-08-25.md, before:

## Todo/ Logs
- [ ] complete all assignments
- [x] solve 4 leetcode problems
- [ ] complete rss related services in the project

- Logs: x: 0 ; y : 5


## Topics



## Notes
- algorithms
	- implement binary search 
		- wrote a solution; but it did not work; infinite loop came into existence
		- made a very silly error while solving the problem; I was making error with the while condition; I need to be more careful with the such critical conditions
	- problem : search a 2d matrix 
		- tried the brute force solution, it worked; but it was quite easy using that; it was marked medium for a reason. 
		- let's try optimization
		- did come up with a well optimized solution, at least better than the previous one. 
		- but the provided solutions are one notch above. they really spark a cord and require a fair bit of critical thinking and questioning. 
		- read the question really carefully; you are missing critical details. 
		- create a framework of laying down the essential ideas in the problem before jumping directly to the solution. 
		- create a binary search for the finding which array to look for and then the same for element
		- did got a fair understanding of how the optimized solution works, but I need to revisit it to actually grasp it. 
	- concept: search range
		- this is kinda the same as binary search, but with a variation that often comes up in interviews. 
		- we don't have an array, but a range to search for a value
	- problem: guess number higher or lower
		- this seems like a fairly basic problem, but I couldn't come up with the solution with ultra fast instinct. No issues, there is no need for that tbh, but just try to iterate your way through it to the solution.
		- an infinite loop is occuring in the code; I need to asses the code. 
		- I was making the same mistake I was making in the binary search problem. review the code a few times and preferrably write it from scratch. 
	- problem: first bad version
		- on first read; it felt like a copy of guess the number higher or lower, but when I re-read, I realized there is some fine play
		- the while loop condition might need to be changed 
		- made submission, time limit exceeded. 
 > I do get distracted in between, I allow my brain to wander during deep work session; work first, optimize later. 
	- problem: koko eating bananas
		- a fairly interesting problem, that does require a fair bit of thinking (construct the problem first, then go about only focusing on the details that matter, and finally propose a solution) 
		- will be continued later

- backend engineering
	- RSS feed project
		- setup feeds table for storing rss feed data 
			- i have to create a user_id field in the feeds table, but I am not very sure about which data type should be used here. 
			- ON DELETE CASCADE: an interesting concept in database so that no orphaned recoreds are there in the database
			- user_id might need to be changed to a foreign key ; full of doubts
			- error with SQL query while trying to up goose migrations (after adding the feed creation command) 
			- i think the error with the sql query is because the ON DELETE CASCADE because the user_id is simply a field without having any link (foreign key) to other table

Commit message:

did some work on rss feed project

aug, 2025/28-08-25.md, after:

## Todo/ Logs
- [ ] complete all assignments
- [x] solve 4 leetcode problems
- [ ] complete rss related services in the project

- Logs: x: 0 ; y : 8


## Topics
- algorithms
- backend engineering
	- rss feed project


## Notes	
- algorithms
	- implement binary search 
		- wrote a solution; but it did not work; infinite loop came into existence
		- made a very silly error while solving the problem; I was making error with the while condition; I need to be more careful with the such critical conditions
	- problem : search a 2d matrix 
		- tried the brute force solution, it worked; but it was quite easy using that; it was marked medium for a reason. 
		- let's try optimization
		- did come up with a well optimized solution, at least better than the previous one. 
		- but the provided solutions are one notch above. they really spark a cord and require a fair bit of critical thinking and questioning. 
		- read the question really carefully; you are missing critical details. 
		- create a framework of laying down the essential ideas in the problem before jumping directly to the solution. 
		- create a binary search for the finding which array to look for and then the same for element
		- did got a fair understanding of how the optimized solution works, but I need to revisit it to actually grasp it. 
	- concept: search range
		- this is kinda the same as binary search, but with a variation that often comes up in interviews. 
		- we don't have an array, but a range to search for a value
	- problem: guess number higher or lower
		- this seems like a fairly basic problem, but I couldn't come up with the solution with ultra fast instinct. No issues, there is no need for that tbh, but just try to iterate your way through it to the solution.
		- an infinite loop is occuring in the code; I need to asses the code. 
		- I was making the same mistake I was making in the binary search problem. review the code a few times and preferrably write it from scratch. 
	- problem: first bad version
		- on first read; it felt like a copy of guess the number higher or lower, but when I re-read, I realized there is some fine play
		- the while loop condition might need to be changed 
		- made submission, time limit exceeded. 
 > I do get distracted in between, I allow my brain to wander during deep work session; work first, optimize later. 
	- problem: koko eating bananas
		- a fairly interesting problem, that does require a fair bit of thinking (construct the problem first, then go about only focusing on the details that matter, and finally propose a solution) 
		- will be continued later

- backend engineering
	- RSS feed project
		- setup feeds table for storing rss feed data 
			- i have to create a user_id field in the feeds table, but I am not very sure about which data type should be used here. 
			- ON DELETE CASCADE: an interesting concept in database so that no orphaned recoreds are there in the database
			- user_id might need to be changed to a foreign key ; full of doubts
			- error with SQL query while trying to up goose migrations (after adding the feed creation command) 
			- i think the error with the sql query is because the ON DELETE CASCADE because the user_id is simply a field without having any link (foreign key) to other table  
> too much distraction while working; i make excuse that i am trying to figure out it on my own and start wasting time on random stuff. 
			- resolved the conflict by reverse engineering the core problem and questioning the existing migrations
			- so the prev migrations were active, so all the new migrations are based on the existing migratins (any changes made to the prev .sql file of migs does not help with actual changes) 
			- we are supposed to down migrate first and up migrate; so this causes the db to turn back to same state 
			- changing the users table fields led to an error in the cli package code (yeah, that happens; it's alright) 
			- NullUUID causing issues with primary key constraint
			- No direct solution found on google related to this; 
			- let me try to explain this problem to better resolve it on my own: NullUUID is likely not the right struct (type) for handling for handling uuids with primary key constraint 
			-
