## Tasks/ Logs
- [ ] 16 session algo
- [ ] 8 session backend 
> a very heavy day ahead. let's go
> got pretty tired and slept more than expected. 
> but let's not make it worse. 

- Logs: x : 0 ; y: 5


## Topics
- algorithms 


## Notes
- algorithms 
	- problem: search in a binary search tree 
		- I am trying to do this problem using iterative approach. 
		- the iterative solution is causing problems in some cases; gpt is pointing to the structuring of edge case check
		- did it; had to change the while condition. once you do it, it seems so intuitive (I guess that is learning) 
	- concept: bst
		- why bst over sorted arrays?
			- insertion and deletion in sorted arrays is O(n); but it can be done in O(logn) in bsts
	- concept: bst insert and remove
		- fairly complex and requires multiple iterations to get a decent understanding. 
		- did got a fair bit of idea; but will require a great many problems with varying dificulty to really grasp it 
	- problem: insert into a binary search tree
		- this is a great problem because it tests my low level understanding of how data is captured in memory and what is taking place. 
		- I am facing similar problem which I was facing while trying to solve the koko banana problem 
		- I randomly wrote a recursive solution, without really giving any thought (most of the things I wrote were out of part intuition and part memory; but I think I am catching some patterns) 
		- trying to write the iterative solution now after watching the solution video. 
		- I got the solution in one go (memory recall); but now I want to write the solution that is partly my own. 
		- I am planning to use a different while condition
	- problem: delete node in a bst
		- this is most likely to be more difficult than the previous one; but just one another problem though
		- wrote a bare bones solution, but it failed the entry test; good you are learning. 
		- getting a traceback, but I can't seem to get why I am getting it. 
		- resolved the traceback, but can't seem to get what is causing the core issue. 
		- got some feedback from gpt; the output has changed now, I will probably spend another 25-min figuring it out beforing jumping to solution. 
		- so here is what I am doing wrong:
			- for the cases where node has two child nodes, I am not removing the greatest left subtree node
		- after struggling for a fair amount of time, I watched the solution; the solution video provides some really clever approaches to solve this problem (and they are far more intuitive and can handle edge cases more easily) 
		- completed the solution by copy pasta. 
		- need to review it and write it on my own. 

