2025-09-28

## todo/ notes
- [ ] CN
	- 2 units 
- [ ] ML 
	- 1 unit
- [ ] Algos
	- 4 sessions
	- 3-4 new problems
	- 5-6 problems review 
- [ ] personnel project
	- 1-2 hour 
	- 2-3 commits
- [ ] backend
	- do the bare minimum 
	- 45-min x 2 sessions


## notes
### Algorithms 
- problem: min cost climbing stairs 
	- I am trying to visualize an approach and choose an appropriate data structure according to that. I am not having a clear map to solve this approach. 
	- I am not certain if I can directly write a recursive solution for this problem. I am unable to conceptualize a direct approach for this. I mean , I don't see a recursive nature for some reason, even though it is very likely this is recursive. 
	- did came up with an approach to solve this problem and had to understand a few underlying ideas of object oriented programming. 
	- solution 
		- I misunderstood a few critical ideas. Also, I missed out on critical details that lead to solution. 
		- It does not really matter if the language of the problem is not great, it your fault that you are not able to get it right. 
		- all three approaches are pretty interesting and great . I am going to visit this problem surely after a week. 
		- trying to write the true dp approach by myself. 
	- will be revisiting this problem again today, and will try to get the three approaches properly. 
- problem: contains duplicate 2 
	- buildup problem 
	- I am going to try out this problem for 25-min, then going to take a break. 
	- looks easy on the surface, but challenges fundamental ideas and ground up build. 
	- I again misunderstood the problem. I was solving some other problem altogether. 
	- trying to look for an optimized way to solve this; ideally a single pass if possible. 
	- failing with the brute force approach itself. I am not sure if I am even progressing. but i will go anyways; until the 300 day mark. 
	- the brute force solution did not pass all the cases. but anyways, I managed to write it. 
	- the solution I am trying to write using hashMap is seriously looking bad, but I will not quit it in between. 
	- solution: 
		- introduces a new model for understanding problems: fixed sized sliding window and the construct seems quite valuable. 
	

### Redis-go
- handling multiple PING requests from same client 
	- stuck with submission of problem 

### Backend 
#### HTTP servers in Go
- just completed a pending problem while converting string to uuid. got it done though.
- I guess going through documentation is a meta skill and extremely valuable , no doubt. 
