Scott Adams, Paul Graham, Tim Urban, Melting Asphalt,  
## todo/ logs
- [x] 4 hour session
- [x] record project explanation


## notes
### algorithms
- concept: heaps + push/ pop mechanism in heaps
	- I was feeling pretty frustrated while learning this concept yesterday; but today, when I tried to revisit the idea, it made much better sense.
	- push operation in heaps is relatively straightforward, though to build intution, solve some problems and internalize the ideas. 
	- pop operation is somewhat tricky; it requires a **genius** step, using percolation top down approach, rather than the more natural bottom up. 
	- These notes are messing up my head space.  I am having issues with even setting up basic text as per my requirement. Ignore this for now. 
> I need to devise a proper system to tackle difficult problems using progressive load + efficiency. 
- problem: kth largest element in stream
	- I did not really tried working on this solution even for a brief period of time, I just jumped to the solution; this is absolutely the worst way to learn patterns and systems to work on problems that are worth solving. Try to at least spend a minimum amount of time, else you are really not learning anything. 
	- Did watch the solution, let me try to write the solution from memory and explain to myself what happened in there.
	- can we use max-heap in this problem; why did we go with min-heap? try to ask as many basic questions as you can; without questions, it is like running archlinux without GUI. 
	- one thing I forgot, this problem can be solved with ease using standard array based approach, but I was so much trapped within the lesson, I did not try. Try to figure out what is causing such patterns to emerge. 
	- I copied the entire solution line by line; because I have been stuck on this problem for quite some time. I need some fresh perspective. 
	- Putting this question on hold for now, will surely revisit this again. 
- concept: heapify
	- it is an algorithm which allows us to build a heap; it also has the time complexity of O(nlogn) ; same as that of binary search tree. 
- problem: last stone weight
	- just going to read the basic problem description and will try to come up with an approach to design a rough solution. 
	- pretty tired for today. 



### backend engineering
- RSS feed project
	- yeah, this is still not done. 
	- I need to learn how to create the binaries and actually build a project that can be shipped to the user. 
	- did upload a video with very rough edges; but did it anyways; I can't wait like this to go from zero to one. You need to put yourself out there. 
	- I was dealing with a problem which requires me to think and really flex my normal assumptions, my brain tried to take over the natural process and tried to push the ego into play. 
	- Will need to figure out what was causing the binary issue. I mean, the problem is I am creating binaries, but those binaries don't run and are not recognized by the os for some reason. Certainly a problem that I will need to wrap my head around. 