2025-09-25

## todo / logs
- [ ] complete the 2 sessions properly without any distractions
	- again did bad and lost focus in between and sporadic attention. 
	- this is not going to work out like this. 
- [x] read light 
- [ ] play a chess game


## notes

### systems 
- there is immense value in having a smart friend; you just need one chance to use their intelligence and the game is entirely turned; also, no matter how smart you are, having someone who knows their craft is always a good idea to get new ideas and fresh perspectives. adding to the above argument, it is not necessary for someone to be valuable to be knowledgeable; great ideas can stem from anywhere. 
- you just need to know someone who knows different things than you. 
### algorithms 
- problem: longest common subsequence
	- continuing working on this problem. this seemed like a trivial problem, but it does require a fair bit of questioning and critical thinking to understand what we are actually looking for. 
	- I will try to work on this problem for around 15-20 mins before I start lookings at hints/ solution. 
		- I am not really able to come with an approach to conceptualize the idea in code. I understand the idea behind this problem at a very basic level. 
		- I am not really sure what I am doing or what I looking for to figure out solution to this problem. 
		- I am jumping to solution because I really don't understand this and I am going to give some serious time to understand the solution. 
	- solution 
		- this is going to be a pretty interesting solution, because it involves a fair bit of visual representation and then we convert into code; this will help me develop a model to tackle complex problems. 
		- bottom up dynamic programming solution; it is going to be
			- bottom up means solving in reverse order 
		- went through the solution and did got an idea on how to convert ideas into code a bit. 
		- the approach is pretty beautiful and creative. 
		- there is a recursive solution too, but I am focusing on this for now. 
	- after going  through the solution and a short break, I am now going to try to write the solution myself ( I am going to give myself about 25-min)
		- creating a DP 2d array for storing the lcs string 
		- managed to write the solution quite easily ,but it was less about understanding, and more about memorization solution. 
- concept: bit manipulation
	- not a super important topic for coding interview; but it is good to know and it helps understanding low level concepts. 
	- I actually understand most operations except the left shifting; it is somewhat confusing. I think I will get a hang of it by applying it regularly to new problems. 
	- got to understand the core idea; also think of shifting in decimal number system (x10, / 10)
	- the reason why bit manipulation is not super common in interviews is that they usually require some trick to solve, so they are not really fundamental in a way. It is either you know the trick or not. 
- problem: number of one bits
	- I guess I should be able solve it quite easily. let's see. 
	- I will give myself 5-min. 
	- solved it after a break; was making a minor mistake. 
- problem: counting bits 
	- did it; was pretty easy. 
	- nothing worth spending too much time on. 
- problem: reverse bits 
	- this is interesting. I will be spending around 20-25 mins on this. 
	- I am having an approach , but I am not sure how to implement it in python. 
	- Pretty good problem. 
	- this is more complicated than I thought (even though it is marked easy). 
	- I was trying to look for some shortcut to solve this problem by abstracting away the core idea; but this problem is all about understanding the core idea and applying it. 
	- it was really really hard. I could not understand what was done, and the author was like it was nothing. 

### backend engineering
#### HTTP servers in Go
- writing a handler for creating a new post
	- I am not sure how I am going to use the payload; and how the payload is going to have the user_id. 
	- managed to solve the issue with relative ease; I guess it is all the buildup and work I have been putting in . 
- collections and singletons
	- this is more of about understanding standards than anything hardcore. It is about designing RESTful APIs. 
	- it is conventional in REST to name the endpoints to name after the resources they represent and for the name to be plural. 
		- POST /api/chirps is valid
		- POST /api/chirp is not valid
	- To get a collection of resources it's conventional to use a `GET` request to the plural name of the resource
	- To get a _singleton_, or a _single instance_ of a resource, it's conventional to use a `GET` request to the plural name of the resource, followed by the `ID` of the resource.
- Handling Get requests 
	- returning all posts 
	- returning single post
	- facing issues converting a string into UUID for calling a particular resource in the database. 