2025-09-29

## Todo
- [ ] study algorithms for 3 hours 
- [ ] complete auth 


## Notes
### go-programming 
#### unit one
- go natively handles unicode; okay this is interesting. questions:
	- what does handling natively mean? 
	- is this a big deal? 
	- why native? 
	- what are some of the most popular encoding standards? 
- go program is organized into packages. which are similar to packages or modules in other languages. a package contains one or more .go files in a single directory. 
- a program will not compile if there are broken imports or unecessary ones. 


### backend engineering
#### HTTP servers in Go
- Auth
	- authentication simply means I am truly who I am claiming to be. 
	- passwords are a way to authenticate someone. 
	- two things to keep in mind about passwords: 
		- never store passwords in standard text
		- password strength matters
	- introducing hashing
		- hashing is a one way function
		- takes a string as input and outputs a string as output
		- the output string is called a hash. 
- problem: introduce a new column in the users table called hashed_password
	- having issue ; this is the specific
	- `ERROR: cannot use column reference in DEFAULT expression (SQLSTATE 0A000)`
	- it was a silly double quotes where single quote was expected. 
- problem: use bcrypt to generate a hashed password inside another function 
	- I had to go get the module first ( I was thinking it is done automatically) 
- testing
	- wrote some seriously bad tests
	- they were just passing, but I was not certain if they were really any useful, because there was a circular component to them. 
	- anyways, it was more of an exercise for getting clear with the process. 

### algorithms 
- problem: subarray sum equals k
	- need to find all the subarrays whose sum equals k and finally return the total number of subarrays whose sum is k 
	- the core issue that I feel is going to be is brute force time complexity (2^n likely) 
	- also, one other issue that is going to create problems is negative values. 
	- I am getting confused with the brute force approach; I remember it very vaguely, it likely involved some tree type structure for building that. 
	- I was able to figure how to create all the subsets (subarrays) of an array; but for now, just in visual sense, not sure how to code that. 
	- But I don't think this solution will be even pass. still, I think I should try. 
	- after trying to think of some approach for around 20-25 min, I am giving up for now. 
	- solution
		- key idea: prefix sum 
	







