2025-09-13

## todo/ logs
- [x] 4 hour deep work session (absolute must)

## notes

### backend engineering
- oneearth
	- setting up psql using docker-compose
	- using all gpt generated code.
	- configuring system to replicate data; 
	- most of the things went over my head; realized the value of process and buildup. 

### algorithms

- **problem**: last stone weight
  - I was solving this problem yesterday. Getting back to solving this. This problem felt quite easy, at least from the first look, but I was not getting the solution I was expecting.
  - Going to try for 15-20 min.
  - So, I actually figured out the problem after running the code locally.
  - I’m using a min heap, so the values that are being popped are not the largest values, which is causing the issue.
  - Let's figure out what we can do.
  - Okay, done. The thesis proposed was correct and well done.
> **Build your own approach (system) to approaching problems.** Even if they seem trivial or simple, having and using a system will go a long way.			

- **problem**: k-closest points to the origin
  - A beautiful problem, because it takes a simple problem and makes it slightly difficult, testing incremental understanding.
  - Time limit: 40-min; let's go.
  - A few things we need to do before thinking about using heaps: how are we going to use heaps, and on what? The coordinates.
  - Directly heapifying won’t work; we need a workaround, likely using a map.
  - I just read the problem statement further, and I need to make a few optimizations, but it’s quite alright. 
  - Asked gpt about what I am doing wrong and there's a critical mistake in logic structure; the frame is fine, but critical issues. We need to fin the kth closest in the provided coordinates; but we are just removing the closest ones first . 
  - was able to do something that I have not been able to do till now, get a problem right that I think  I won't be able to do in a record time frame. 
  - I know, it was simple problem, but I am getting good at this , and more than that, the process. 
  - Cool! let's make this sharp. 

- **problem** : k-largest element in the array
  - seems like I am getting hang of this idea. if you can solve this question under 25-min, you have got a good understanding of this idea.
  - time-limit: 25-min ; start at 0043
  - tried running the solution, my algorithm does not work on any case for now, but I am seeing something interesting, the sol I designed returns same value 1 (need to check for that)
  - okay, I am far from good at this; the time is remaining; but I am making the same kind of mistakes; whether I should use min or max heap and what operations to perform. I am still in the challenge, baby. 
  - was able to do it in record time. I have to visit it again. 


