2025-09-14

## todo/ logs
- [ ] review : subset, kth largest element in stream
- [ ] 4 hour deep work session


## notes
### algorithms
- problem: find kth largest in an array
	- I am getting quite distracted by some ideas in my mind. Let me try to bring my attention back to the subject at hand. 
	- was able to get it done, was making a slight mistake in the logic. 
	- I learnt some idea about my behavior, I don't analyze well enough. I need to give myself some time to assess problems and think what is happening at each level. 

- concept: hash maps 
	- hash maps/ hash sets are immensely important; probably one of the most. 
	- they have constant time operation for insert, remove, update (nuance: average case, but safe to assume)
	- essentially , they allow for storing key - value pairs, but their utility goes far ahead. 
	- getting a better idea will actually happen when I do good amount of problems and that too regularly, with focus on understanding core ideas well. 

- problem: contains duplicate
	- I have already solved this problem, but I am not so sure if I will be able to solve it easily or not. 
	- the problem requires me to return true if any value occurs more than once. 
	- got distracted midway by planning paralysis. I have to train myself hard. 
	- got it done, but I think optimizations can be made. 

- problem: two sum
	- this problem seems simple at first, but its edge cases require a fair bit of thinking. 
	- the main problem I am facing is with the same values; I might need to store the indices as array inside it .
	- the function I wrote seems way more complicated than it really needs to be. But, anyways, let me try to understand and wrangle with this for some time. 
	- got it accepted; it felt trivial in the beginning , but got a taste of edge cases in this problem. 
	- pretty good problem actually. 

- problem: LRU cache
	- reminds me of OS scheduling algorithms, even though I did not study it well enough. 
	- time limit: 10 -min (I know challenging, but let's give it a go)
	- when working on problems , specially the ones involving design, try to really understand what is expected before jumping on to the code. 
	- continuing after a break. did not complete the problem in time.
	- did not asses the problem correctly. now I need to redesign the solution. 
	- I am stuck in a dilemma, how do I go about fixing this. 
	- okay, I am seeing a bit of issues here; I need to think about the following:
		- how do we store cache so that we can regularly maintain it effectively
		- how to reorganize the cache if get is called 
	- moving ahead with the solution, now. 
	- the solution contains quite a bit of logic; this problem really tests a variety of skills (raw problem solving, designing, scale, testing)
	- the entire solution went over my head; this is a worthy problem to revisit multiple times. It really challenges thinking around multiple ideas and pushes us to question our assumptions. 
	- putting this solution on hold. I will be watching the solution tomorrow again and will copy the solution first, while explaining myself what each was doing. then after two days, I will likely try that myself. 

- concept: hash map implementation
	- this has to be the longest video in the course I have; let's do this. 
	- did not watch it. most distracted I have ever been till now in the process. 

### systems thinking
- Scott Adams
	- systems
		- goals are static, they are not always possible to achieve; systems give flexibility and can be extended to long haul. 
	- skill stack
		- build skills that compliment each other. 
		- the world more than ever requires ever changing mindset. things constantly change around use and we need to think how we can work on such every evolving systems. 
