2025-09-15
## todo/ logs
- [ ] lru cache review full
- [x] 4 hour deep work 


## notes
## algorithms
- concept: hash implementation
	- fairly interesting concept, but needs revisits and thinking to actually make it intuitive. 
	- do revisit 
- concept: graphs
	- there are three ways to represent graphs
		1. matrix 
		2. adjacency matrix 
		3. adjacency list
		out of these, matrix and adjacency list are the most common ones. adj. matrix is not so good as it takes O(V^2)
- concept: matrix DFS
	- I am not really understanding most of the ideas taught in this lessons; I guess I am tired; but I will try my best to grasp whatever I get out. 

- problem: number of islands
	- this problem seems too difficult to me for now. but let me give it a try before I make any judgment. 
	- forget about code, I am not able to understand the problem in the first place. 
	- this problem is pretty challenging and requires a serious bit of thinking. 
	- got a better clarity than before , but have no idea how I will proceed with writing the solution. 
	- I am sensing a bit of DFS approach here. 
	- Went through the solution video and was able to make some sense out of the problem, but still need to revisit the problem multiple times before I can say that I understand the ideas at a meta level. 


### backend engineering
- RSS project
	- struggling to build binaries. This problem is getting way over my head now. 
	- I was looking for something that never existed. this is going to be big lesson. 

 - HTTP Servers in Go
	 - serving files
	 - FileServer, Handle 
