2025-09-09
## todo/ logs
- [ ] do the 4 hour deep work like it is the epitome and nothing else is there. 
- [ ] go to bed on time. 

- Logs => x = (1p) ; y = ()


## notes
- Algorithms 
	- problem: path sum
		- I was already able to solve this question; but I am watching the solution to check if any other approach exists and check my line of thinking. 
		- actually the solution written by nc is somewhat different and feels a bit more distant; but it is pretty good. I will revisit that and will try to write the solution that way later. 
		> my solution was good ; code clarity will take time and don't think too much about that. 
	- problem: subsets
		- retrying this problem; yesterday, I was almost clueless about this problem; let me give it a try now. 
		- whenever I try to focus on  a problem, my brain starts to push unwanted stuff that is somewhat meaningless while I am focusing. 
		-  how will I be building the solution
		- I can draw the visual reps, but I am not sure how to convert that into code
		- just what is going on here
		- can I try to write the solution entirely from memory
		- tbh, I don't remember much of the solution
		- the only thing I clearly understood yesterday was the decision tree diagram
		- watched the solution and built a better idea about writing the solution. 
		- now, I will try to write the solution on my own, mostly from memory. 
		- the solution I wrote (90% out of memory), was wrong; let me try to customize this and try solving it on my own. 
		- from what I am understanding, I am likely not understanding edge case handling in multiple questions.
		- could not write the solution on my own, copied the solution; I clearly lack understanding with this general problem and topic **backtracking**
	- problem: combination sum 
		- array of distinct integers: nums
		- target: int
		- task: return list of all the unique combination of nums where the chosen numbers sum to target.
		- meta: this question clearly matches the pattern of subset backtracking problem what is similar: find arr which have sum equal to target brute force way
		- subset generation; then check which entry is valid and which is not based on that filter and finally return the apt
		- the approach I thought off failed; important note to self: try to read the question as carefully as possible. 
		- 