2025-09-11
## todo/ logs
- [x] 4 hour deep work session
- [ ] complete networking assignment
- [ ] complete file work 


## notes
### backend engineering
- continued working on RSS project aggregator; did resolved a bug I encountered yesterday. It was pretty fine, but made me realize how important it is follow the error logs. 
> **it is really important to being able to handle the error logs properly, don't ignore them**
- some fine tuning still required; it is always great to tackle with problems; but do remember not to dissolve. 
- trying to solve a foreign key constraint that is preventing insertion of new posts in the database. 
- was able to figure some pretty tight logic. Going good  ,pa !pa. 
- need to manage the documentation for user and actual usage. 
- 

### algorithms
- problem; combination sum
	-  this problem was pending; I was not able to write solution for this problem yesterday; I am going to try to write a solution for 15-20 mins; before I jump to solution. 
	- wrote the first solution; mostly using own constructs and thinking, but even though the answer was wrong, the solution was pretty pretty close (subjective opinion)
	- moving closer to a working solution; 1/3 test cases have passed, 2 more ; I just need to get the test cases passed and then I will have debugged the core logic. 
	- I have confusion with regards to the +1/-1 problems; I seriously get confused while dealing with cases like that. I know, very small issue, but this really messes up the entire rhythm. 
	- copied the entire solution, because I was struggling with this for quite some time now; time to move forward. Will get back to this after some time. 
	> tbh, the code is pretty rudimentary; the thing that made this problem difficult for me was not having patience and trying to grasp what is really going under the hood. Don't be in such a hurry (this is not the standard urgency, but a core issue with your approach; if you get it, try working on that)
- concept: heaps - push and pop 
	- the idea is relatively straightforward, but certainly not simple. 
	- I guess building actually understanding will come through learning revisiting this again and better, trying to solve problem using that idea. 
	- The code for implementation of the priority queue was seriously intimidating; but I think it is more about getting the core logic right first. Will likely try to understand that tomorrow after I am back from college. 
- problem: Kth largest element in a stream 
	- even though, the question is tagged easy; I am feeling under confident because I don't have enough understanding of the underlying idea (priority queues). 
	- jumped to the solution, because felt like I won't be able to do it, because I am feeling tired and second, because I am good at making bs excuses. 
	- put this on hold for now; but this is a really important to understand. 

