2025-09-10

## todo/ logs
- [ ] do the 4 hour session properly
- [x] some linux
- [ ] backend 

- Logs => x = (1) ; y = (1)

## notes
- RSS feed aggregator 
	- started working on introducing the regular fetch mechanism to the agg command. 
	- had difficulty while coming up with multiple questions, but just managed. 
	- still not done with it, many things are still pretty vague and not very clear. 
	- the function is behaving as expected; the ticker is sending signals as it is expected; but the functionality is breaking midway somewhere. 
	- found where the function is breaking and likely part that is not run. also; I might be not catching errors which need to be caught. 
- Algorithms
	- problem: combination sum 
		- I am surely struggling with thinking around this question. I was expecting this problem to be pretty simple and would be able to do it quite easily; but there is a catch in the question that is a serious leap, how do I handle the repetition condition. 
		- I am unable to think of a standard pathway that can help me try out possible solutions without breaking machine. 
		- went through the solution; kind of interesting how it is done. 
		- solving the duplication problem is the core issue; try to come up with visual reps in future (spend good amount of time)
		- trying to write the solution myself after watching the solution . 
		- got somewhat better understanding for writing this type of solution, but was lacking a core understanding . still not there; actually remotely not there. 
		- 