2025-09-17

## todo / logs
- [ ] 4 hour deep work session
- [ ] get ready for deep dive into backend engineering paradigm
	- setup books to really dive deep
	- follow elite engineers 
	- understand what separates elite engineering from mediocre
	- how can I join big leagues 
	- define a stack that I am going to focus on for 600-800 days
	- what is going to be my core of making some money along the way
	- revisit the system and heavily make changes 




## notes
### algorithms
- problem: max area of islands
	- stuck with a logic; going in with the solution for now. 
	- I am not sure if the problem "number of islands" was solved using DFS or BFS. I will need to revisit the problem. 
	- the author says, eventually writing DFS becomes trivial (interesting) 
	- went through the solution video, and  I felt my solution was pretty close, but I am still not able to find the bug that is causing it to give 0 for every grid. 
	- let me try to experiment with it for some time. 
	- I am mixing up two ideas (iterative and recursive approach sauce)
	- there are quite a lot of edge cases to think about in this problem ; but I think it is all about understanding them well enough for once. Getting the core idea right just once is the secret sauce. Keep your eyes straight. 
	- got it done, with a lot of help from gemini; but my priority was to get it done and ignore everything else for now, but I did struggle with the problem. 

- concept: matrix BFS
	- I already got a glimpse of bfs while working on a problem related to graphs. 
	- the visual explanation made a lot of sense. 
	- Get better by working on a lot of problems. 

- problem: shortest path in binary matrix
	- this seems like the problem(or very near) to the one that was being explained in the concept video. 
	- I am not so sure about the directional constraint; the problem states that we can move in 8 - directions or something like that. 
	- Let me try working on the problem for 18 min; and then I will start using some AI to get a better understanding of the problem. 
	- started reading `antifragile` for reason I am not familiar with. 
	- I have made some interesting explorations, which I was not expecting this early. 
	- got distracted with Khabib for some reason. 
	- I am not thinking about this problem properly; I just tried to copy paste the solution from the previous problem. 

### backend engineering
#### HTTP servers with Go
- Stateful handlers
	- seems like an interesting idea. some questions I have before I go into the lesson: 
		- what is the meaning of stateful handlers?
		- why stateful?
		- what brought this design choice in mainstream?
		- what problem does it solve?
		- what bottlenecks still exist even after that?
	- handlers which have the functionality of storing data inside them are termed as stateful handlers. 
	- I am getting a hang of the idea, but still not fully; this is absolutely incremental progress. Keep following the process, slowly and steadily. 
	- working with atomics is not clear at first. 
	- the apiConfig.store is not incrementing on visits ; something is buggy. 
	- the value of Hits only changes from 0 to 1, but after that, no change in value. 
	- trying to understand some internal happenings inside middleware; I am still lacking a few essential details. 
	- this middleware idea is more complicated than I thought. I need to wrap my head around this properly. 
	- trying to cool down my head; and will try to get my head around that problem for some more time before I ask for some help. 
	- the problem is related to conforming to the standard; but I have some serious doubts regarding that; why we use http.Handler and how exactly am I supposed to use that in middlewares
	- confusion between various related ideas; handlerFunc, Handler, interfaces . This is a really good problem to spend time on; there is serious value hidden in this question. 




## systems
- antifragile 
	- create a system where you are having great safety more than majority of the times; but the remaining should be extremely risky; losing this capital should not affect you, but the favorable outcomes should be enough to cover all losses made and a small fortune. 
- scott adams
	- firstly, seek failure; there is really no problem with failure if you derive the valuable data points it comes with. 
	- don't let failure go in vain; use failure as something highly valuable , because it is. failure has the power to change a lot of things; take out as much value as you can from it. 