2025-09-02

## Todo/ Logs
- [x] do dsa
- [x] do backend engineering
> just did the bare minimum. a lot of loopholes to fill in. 

> I am going to iteratively work on this process. 

## Topics
- algorithms
- backend engineering


## notes 
- algorithms 
	- concept: depth first search 
		- just got a general idea; but actual understanding will be built through iterations and repetition
	- problem: binary tree inorder traversal
		- recursive solution is trivial, do it iteratively (mentioned  in question) 
		- i will try to solve this using recursion first. 
		- there is a mismatch between what i am trying to do and what the question expects me to do.
		- did not even tried to write the solution for 15-min. I am not putting in the required work. 
		- I just copied the solution. So, just to redeem myself, I will explain the solutions in detail. 
		- There are two approaches to solve the problem:
			- recursive one (it is the one that is labelled trivial)
				- it is actually pretty beautiful in the way it can be written. 
				- recursive solution uses a nested function (at least in the one I wrote) to do the traversal. The base condition is if to return prematurely when the node is nil. 
			- iterative one
				- did not really understand it. 
				- going to be the first thing I do tommorrow. 
				- actually , I got a good idea of what is going on; we are trying to do the meta process of recursion in the form iteration. creating the stack in the program itself, rather than it being handled by the memory . 



- backend engineering
	- rss feed project 
		- addfeeds command added successfully
		- create many to many relationship between users and feeds 
			
