2025-09-24

# todo/ logs
- [x] complete two session properly 
	- marking it, even though the quality was not great. 
- [x] do some reading


# notes
## systems
- play the long game, survival is a big deal (when you see the entire picture). 
- starting my 0x2 by starting with some reading. 
- iteration with feedback is exceptional learning method; play it long enough and you could be among the 99% (just a figure I made up)
- you don't really understand the odd of things; we don't really understand reality; we just think we understand it. 
## algorithms 
- problem: unique paths 2
	- continuing working on this problem
	- I am going to try to work on this problem for 20-min on my own. 
		- trying to understand the test cases
		- was able to figure out the recursive solution; but it is so inefficient that it bottlenecks the program beyond a point. let me try to add some memoization to this. 
		- the problem tests for very large values and so even adding memoization does not solve for it. 
		- this is a really a beautiful problem; this is just difficult enough to challenge you to reinforce your idea, but simple enough to always seem approachable. 
		- going on with the solution, now. 
	- solution
		- brute force is the first approach that comes to mind, and it should; give yourself some time to comprehend the brute force solution. 
		- the provided solution looks oddly similar to the one I wrote; but there might be a few critical differences that might be making the solution better and more practical. 
		- the solution did pass and quite easily. I guess I will have to analyze the my solution and the author's solution. 
		- this is a fairly basic 2d dp problem, but getting the core idea right is extremely important to eventually work on more difficult 
		- I have not seen the true dp solution yet, but I think I can get it right. Let me try to do that on my own first (just 5-min). 
		- designing the solution for handling edge cases is pretty confusing. I am facing issues with elements at specific indices (edge cases, literally)
		- my thinking is very much in sync with the idea in the explanation, but I need to make my sessions more focused and context window optimized. 
		> **Learnt about the process of going into the process; this was a tremendous problem. I got to understand small nuances which are required while solving problems that can be solved using different approaches; ofcourse it was relatively simple, but this surely can be used as a foundational problem**	- 

- problem: longest common subsequence
	- this is going to be a tricky one for sure. let's try it. 
	- because I have already worked on this problem while preparing for DAA exam, I do have a basic understanding of the problem. 
	- I am not so sure if I will be able to solve the problem because I am not sure about the implementation. 
	- I am directly trying to write the true dp solution for this one: 
		- my intuition has started to sharpen; I wrote a really crap solution, but I still ran it to just get an idea and I somehow got 2 tests passed. 
		- the process is getting stronger. 
		- I am not checking for the position of the characters and essentially just iterating through the lists without any checks. 
		- did some poor optimizations, managed to pass a few more tests; but it clearly did not solve the core problem. 

## backend engineering
### HTTP servers in Go
 - handling database related api functionality; I am trying to retrieve data from the database and simultaneously provide the related output back with a payload. 
 - need to create a new struct for storing user struct returned from an endpoint and adjust the json keys can be manually managed and don't have to accept it blindly. 
 - I have done it mostly, but I am starting to focus on deep foundational ideas and going to spend some time understanding, rather than quickly jumping from lessons to lessons ( I will be focusing on this from now on; likely very seriously for the next three months) 
 - getting distracted a lot. focus quality sharp fall. 
 - done for the day. 
 