2025-09-03

## Todo/ Logs
- [ ] do 5 sessions of backend engineering
- [ ] do 3 sessions of foundatational engineering paradigm

- Logs: x: 0 ; y:1 



## Topics
- Algorithms
- Backend 



## Notes
- Algorithms
	- problem: kth smallest integer in bst
		- first approach that came to my mind was to use inorder traversal, but it does not seem like the correct approach
		- no, it does seem promising; I should give it a try
		- the problem I am facing is when to stop; for the smallest integer in bst, we simply keep moving left until we hit a none block
		- but, in the kth smallest integer case
		- I wrote a solution and it did not compile/interpret 
		- okay, so the solution passed 1 test case; a case for celebration
		- now, 5 test cases are passing; but I think the code has certain flaws which need to removed; but I am focused on writing any solution for now; we will think optimization later
		- will be watching the solution now. 
		-  


- Backend 
	- RSS project 
		> I feel this project has taken me quite long; but I will complete it anyways. this is the test of grandmasters. 
		> I will take this to the absolute epitome. This is the beginning. 
		- add a CreateFeedFollow query
			- this is **deceptively complex**; okay, a pretty good challenge waiting
			- this actually looks really simple and most likely this is a deception. 
			- putting this on hold for now.
			- I was able to do it. Cool! 
		- this problem requires a fair bit of thinking. but I think I can get it done. Will be back after 4 hours. 
		- I am not sure if I did the problem, but it seemed quite easy (whatever I did; I am likely missing something)
			- will update if my thinking was right or not. 
		- I was able to solve most of the problems with ease, if not ease, but felt intuition. 
		- introduction to middlewares
			- middleware allow to wrap a function with additional functionality 
			- they are pretty pretty interesting 
			- it allows us to keep code DRY
			- they can be thought of similar to OOP ideas
		- my system started behaving erratic; I will look into that matter later. 
		- this middleware thing is going to take me some time to understand; it is not as intuitive to implement. 
