2025-09-23
## todo/ logs
- [ ] revisit: house robber, course schedule, number of islands
- [x] sleep on time : 0125

## notes
### algorithms 
- concept: 2D dynamic programming 
	- the problem used to explain the idea of 2d DP is terrific. 
	- count path. 
	- this problem expects us to find all the possible paths from top left to bottom right (kind of like a maze), but we can only move down or right; so first thing, the path length will be the same (because of the given constraint) . the basic idea that we start with is simple: use recursion to build , but this solution is highly inefficient. 
	- one idea that I learnt from neetcode, how slowly and methodically he analyzes problem; even though we are learning 2D DP, he properly explains the recursive solution. I can keep that in mind. 
	- there is a lot of repeated work being done in the simple recursive solution. 
	- the code is somewhat difficult to understand; not very intuitive, especially the true dp one, because some ideas are directly applied there. 
- problem: unique paths
	- this problem seems very similar to the sample problem used in the concept video of 2d dynamic programming. 
	- this is exactly the same problem that was being explained in the video. 
	- I am first going to try the pure recursive approach. 
		- the function signature is not clear to me. I am not able to make sense out of it. 
		- got it accepted. I used an idea of using helper functions to build the solution. Since, I was not able to fit in the standard idea in the problem for some reason, I just tried to use the internal function for handling that. 
	- Now, I will try to memoize it:
		- I encountered an error that I don't understand fully. I am going through  the traceback to understand it properly. 
		- the approach was quite accurate, the core problem was I was not initializing the cache properly. even the callback clearly pointed that out, just that I was not giving it enough value. error callbacks are truly amazing and gem if you want to solid your understanding. 
	- I am proceeding with the hardcore approach : true DP (but will try for 20-min only)
		- I am just having a general idea in mind for approaching this; I know the flow that we are trying to create, but pretty unsure how to put that into code. 
		- so, let me just try to explain that : we will create a list of size cols for getting all the row values of a particular level. after this we will start filling in the values of that particular level. I am having a hard time explaining this. 
		- my goodness, I managed to write the solution for this too. I don't know, but wow. 
- problem: unique paths II
	- this problem takes the previous problem as its starting ground and adds flair to that. 
	- I wasted quite a lot of time on random thinking and not actually focusing on the problem at hand. 
	- started comparing my progress with others. 

## systems 
### Taleb
- Design a barbell strategy; I don't understand it yet; but it could be a great mental model. 

### How to fail
#### Priorities
- Think of priorities in terms of concentric circles, like an archery target. 
- If you don't get your personal financial engine working right, you place a burden on everyone from our family to your country. 
- the problem is reality is not as simple as a model. things come in between. taking care of health being the top priority might not be fulfilled because of some really "urgent" task. 
- one model to keep things great; how will each priority affect your personal energy.
	- if you know a particular path will make you feel more stressed, unhealthy and drained, it's probably a wrong choice. 
	- right choices can be challenging, but they usually charge you up. 
	- it is fundamentally about tradeoffs; if you really think about it. 
- Priorities are the things you need to get right so the thing you love can thrive. 

#### Attitude
- sounds simple, heh. 
- exercise , food and sleep are the tier 0 for managing attitude. 
- Imagination is the interface to your attitude. 
- Consume good amount of feel good content; yeah, sounds dumb; but sure damn effective. 









## backend engineering
### HTTP servers in Go
- creating a handler function for handling user creation
	- this handler essentially is about testing skills related to connecting to the database and accessing the sqlc generated code.  
	- I am trying to add a new helper function along the way, because I am repeating some part code; and for solving that, I am planning on using a helper function. 
	- the function signature for helper function is not clear; how am I supposed to use that. 
	- Did not get much work done. Was heavily distracted by some thoughts. 


