2025-09-19

## todo/ logs
- [ ] Review (4- 45 min session + 25 -min x 2 test)
	- [ ] r: LRU, Islands, DFS, BFS, BST
	- [ ] try to solve 5 random easy/med (get 10 to choose from)
- [ ] Complete fundamental blockchain course
- [ ] Read 2 chapters of mastering ethereum
- [ ] Read 2 chapters of mastering bitcoin 
- [ ] Read 1 chapter of think like a programmer (very slow, iterative)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bSdp2WeyuJY



## notes
### algorithms
- problem: rotting fruits
	- going through the solution again and trying to understand each line of code. 
	- copied the entire solution, but got a fair bit of understanding. going to revisit this problem tomorrow. 

- concept: adjacency list
	- easier to run algorithms on than matrix
	- edge case handling is easier compared to matrix. DFS, BFS and other standard graph algorithms are easier to run, once you get a hang of it. 
	- I am losing focus while going through the video; I need to constantly engage with the ideas in the video, and constantly engage with it. The process needs to be sharp. 
	- for now, we have been only seeing graphs with constant weight; this is a really vast topics in algorithms, but we are primed to work on more difficult problems. 

- problem: clone graph
	- I am not certain what the problem expects me to do, but let me take a guess and go with that approach. 
	- how am I supposed to copy the graph with only a single node? think
	- I don't understand this function signature
		`def cloneGraph(self, node: Optional['Node']) -> Optional['Node']`
	- I wrote code without really understanding what the underlying code was doing; and to be precise the function signature. 
	- I am having a hard time guessing the structure of the graph; I feel as if I have to fill in many of the spaces by myself. 
	- proceeding with the solution , I am not having a sufficient enough understanding of the core data structure. Let me try to focus deeply on it. 
	- even the solution video is not as easy to understand; I mean I haven't seen the code yet, but the explanation seems pretty perplexing to me. this requires multiple revisits. 
	- the solution implemented DFS, I did not even think it was required. I mean, wow; I am that far. 
	- this is pretty pretty difficult; I mean, 90% of the ideas went over my head. 
	- Absolutely worth learning, sleep over it, take some time and get back stronger. 
	- going to spend some serious time on getting this right over the weekend. 


### backend 
#### HTTP servers in go
- JSON parsing 
	- It is very common for JSON data to be sent as payload with POST request. 
	- understand the core idea well enough; decode parsing and encoding ; take a look at that and give it some thought.
	- could not get much done 






### systems thinking
- goals v systems
	- chances are the best job for you won't become available at precisely the time you declare yourself ready. => first exposure to systems rather than goal
	- your appearance almost always matters, until it doesn't. 
	- goal-oriented people exist in a state of nearly continuous failure that they hope will be temporary. 
	- If you achieve your goal, you celebrate and feel terrific, but only until you realize you just lost the thing that gave you purpose and direction.
	- goal: goal is a specific objective that you either achieve or don't.
	- system: something you do on regular basis that increases your odds of happiness in the long run. if you do something everyday, it's a system. if you are waiting to achieve it someday in the future, it's a goal. 
	- The minimum requirement of a system is that a reasonable person expects it to work more often than not. 
		- buying a lottery ticket is not a system, no matter how regularly you do it. 
	- `think about this: individual investors generally experience worse returns than the market average.` 
